## What is squashfs file system?

SquashFS is a read-only file system that lets you compress whole file systems or single directories, write them to other devices/partitions or to ordinary files, and then mount them directly (if a device) or using a loopback device (if it is a file). For archiving purposes, SquashFS gives you a lot more flexibility and performance speed than a tarball archive.

## What are /dev/loop and /dev/tty ?
dev/tty is a special file, representing the terminal for the current process.

## What are Linux Signals?

A signal is an event generated by the UNIX and Linux systems in response to some condition. Upon receipt of a signal, a process may take action. A signal is just like an interrupt; when it is generated at the user level, a call is made to the kernel of the OS, which then acts accordingly.
There are two types of signals:
1. Maskable: signals which can be changed or ignored by the user (e.g., Ctrl+C).
2. Non-Maskable: signals which cannot be changed or ignored by the user. These typically occur when the user is signaled for non-recoverable hardware errors.

## Purpose of hidden files.

Files that exist on a computer, but don't appear when listing or exploring, are called hidden files. A hidden file is primarily used to help prevent important data from being accidentally deleted.

## How ext4 fs is faster ?
Ext4 is faster because it supports delayed allocation. Delayed allcoation means a file is which is written, the appended part is stored in the memory like RAM or cache and after a time written to the hardisk.  This time is called writeback time and hence multiple blocks are blocks at once reducing processor utilization.

Moreover, Ext4 file system marks the unallocated blocks. Hence during file system check this blocks are not checked.

## What is swap & swap memory?
Swap is the hard disk space that is used to simulate extra memory. When the system is low on memory, it swaps a section of ram used by idle program to the hard disk. It involves extensive reading and writing on hard disk and thus is slow.

## How to mount a file system?
To mount a file system, we use the mount command. We use the mount command with the file system and the mount point. The mount point becomes the root directory for the mounted file system.

## ZFS use case.

## How to check which process running on which port?
netstat -anp

## what is unix time sharing?
Unix allows multitasking and multiprogramming. It allows users to run programs concurrently. Hence it is time sharing OS.

## What are control groups?
A control group (cgroup) is a Linux kernel feature that limits, accounts for, and isolates the resource usage (CPU, memory, disk I/O, network, and so on) of a collection of processes.

## Difference between sbin & usr/sbin ?
Sbin contains the binaries of commands which require root priviledges. The /sbin directory under root directory is available for all the users and are used when a system is booted and the usr partition is not mounted.

usr/sbin contains binary files for the commands that requires root priviledges and which are user specific.

## Example of grep, awk, sed
**Grep** command is used for finding particular patterns in a file and to display all the fields matching that pattern. 

Suppose we want to find a word _name_ common in a file then we can do this by

grep -i "name" Name.txt  (here i is used as to ignore case senstivity)

likewise we can use this grep command with different options 

**Awk** command is more of scripting language used in manipulating data and generating reports. 

When using ‘awk’ we enclose patterns in curly braces. Both pattern and action form a rule and the entire awk program is enclosed in single quotes.

awk '{print}' Name.txt  (here since pattern is not specified it will print all)

awk '/name/ {print}' Name.txt

it will print lines containing name.

awk ‘NR==3, NR==6 {print NR,$0}’ Name.txt

  It will display from line number 3 to number 6.

**SED** is short for stream editor. It can be used to perform different functions such as searching.

sed 's/manager/operations/g' example.txt

To replace only on a specific line, specify the file line as below where we are replacing on the third line.

sed '3 s/manager/operations/'g  example.txt 

here we wil also use i flag to save the file 

sed -i s/manager/operations/'g example.txt


